Daily Current Affairs 13 Nov 2025:-

1. 1. The Supreme Court directed High Courts to publicly upload details of the time taken by judges to deliver verdicts after reserving judgments, to enhance judicial transparency and reduce delays.
2. 2. India successfully conducted the Integrated Main Parachute Airdrop Tests (IMAT) for the Gaganyaan mission crew module, a crucial test of the 10-parachute system.
3. 3. JSW Energy Limited commissioned its 1st and India's largest green hydrogen manufacturing plant at Vijayanagar in Karnataka, with a capacity to supply 3,800 TPA green hydrogen.
4. 4. Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman inaugurated Guwahati Gateway Terminal and Jetty, India's first modern river ferry terminal built on the banks of the Brahmaputra River in Assam.
5. 5. Shailesh Chandra, the Managing Director of Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles and Electric Mobility, was elected as the President of the Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d'Automobiles (OICA), becoming the first Indian to head the global automotive body.
6. 6. The 11th edition of the India-Sri Lanka Joint Military Exercise "Mitra Shakti-XI-2025" is underway at the Foreign Training Node, Belagavi, Karnataka, focusing on joint counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations.
7. 7. The Climate Risk Index (CRI) 2026 report by Germanwatch was released at COP30, which placed India ninth on the list of countries most affected by extreme weather events between 1995 and 2024.
8. 8. India developed its first indigenous Quantum Diamond Microscope (QDM) for dynamic magnetic field imaging at the nanoscale, with potential in neuroscience and semiconductor testing.
9. 9. The Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying (MoFAHD) notified the "Sustainable Harnessing of Fisheries in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)" Rules to create a framework for deep-sea fishing.
10. 10. The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) and the International Science Council (ISC) renewed their partnership through an updated MoU to advance science-based disaster risk reduction until 2035.
11. 11. Türkiye temporarily grounded its C-130 military cargo planes following a crash in Georgia that killed 20 military personnel.
12. 12. The Supreme Court termed Tamil Nadu's challenge to the proposed Mekedatu reservoir project by Karnataka as "premature" as the DPR is still under review by the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA).
13. 13. The NAAC issued a notice to Al-Falah University over an alleged false claim of an 'A-Grade' accreditation.
14. 14. The Union Minister of Rural Development launched Mission Watershed Punarutthaan to rejuvenate degraded landscapes through participatory planning.
15. 15. Ron Dermer, a key strategist and close ally of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, stepped down from his ministerial role.